before you [__] say I've been
slacking because it's almost noon it's
past noon and I haven't started
streaming yet guys don't know what's
going on I cleaned the [__] out of all
my project boxes the area around my 3D
printer I cleaned the hell out of [__]
so now I'm more efficient I'm
streamlined Revenue
maximized
profit and um so I got to show you guys
something super
cool so okay so it does doesn't work
like exactly how it should so I got a so
I got my phone I got a keyboard and I
got a mouse and I have this dongle now
this dongle if I if I just plug it into
my phone it it it doesn't detect
anything but if I take all of these out
and then I plug in the USB C into my
phone and then I plug in the mouse and I
plug in the keyboard I can use my mouse
and keyboard on my phone and it's super
productive because then in turmo I can
just like code in neovim like normally
you know it's kind of really really
pleasant experience but the problem lies
in when I try to connect my esp32
because the whole point of why I'm even
doing this is so that I can test out
serial communication and like try to run
programs on my ESP for my phone so we
can start timing the latency and you
know just general
stuff the second that I plug in the
USB from the ESP to the the dong go it
just craps itself out um I think GPT
says maybe a powered something powered
would
um would um work um okay so access
granted so hold on I got to pee uh so
we're just testing out serial
communication
for e
and so uh the other thing I tried is I
tried plugg in an HDMI into here and the
the monitor that I plug into detects
that a device was added but then it says
no signal sent so that means my phone is
not sending an HDMI signal okay anyways
so I just copied over the turmo
USB
thing now we're just going to try to do
this and compile
this paste it in
um okay now let's run this
thing oh wait do we do we
uh yeah
okay oh oops
I'm really sort of pushing my phone to
the
Limit okay see okay damn it so why does
python not because I want to write
python code I don't want to write
freaking C
code do I have git on
here do I have
GH no way dude no way GH is that is
crazy bro
yo that is
crazy dude no way we get GH on here
that's insane bro I'm going to make a
repo for
sure so I got to do uh GH off login
let's see how that goes
oh my gosh
wow no way
man that's insane
wait can I get screen mirroring how do I
get that to
work I lowkey want to get that to work
before I do
um no I I don't really care this is not
I just want to do this
uh get a it
uh wait okay wait so yeah this is what I
should
do is
[Music]
um just to get this repo set up we're
going to plug in the
uh the
dongle I'm going to plug in my mouse now
I have Mouse and plug in the keyboard
now I have keyboard Okay cool so now
dude wait do I get fish yo you can get
fish on this that's insane there's GH
and fish and like all of these packages
that I I want should I get my should I
get my DOT files running on this thing
like oh my
God
e
e e
here and then we'll take this deactivate
activate then uh there okay I want to do
wireless how to
okay so I'm pretty sure that I want to
do
this and
this
okay I already have USB
debugging now on your phone go to
settings
WiFi
um um
okay
okay oh wait we need to connect all this
stuff
um wait we don't need need this keyboard
can just leave my
life wait why did that make a sound oh I
must have jiggled the
okay why did it need to
uh okay
we don't even need this
dongle the USB now we just need the
mouse dude I'm so determined to make
this coding on Android thing working the
way that I
[Music]
want okay so we need to fix
this okay um
okay let's get this thing
going okay
now disconnect the
phone and it's
uh it's 420 no freaking way it's 420
let's go okay and now we can just
run some stupid ass name
wait how do you install it
though I'm almost positive I have
this
what I'm pretty sure I have this but
we're just going to download this thing
again
oh
wait wait
okay so um
can I just okay let's just do
this uh
dude this environment variable length
being like H just so
insane oh my god
dude the environment variable is too
large how do you get get around that
stupid
nonsense wait these are
all already on
there oh there's just a bunch of copies
in
here okay updated
path I don't know if it's bad to hide
path or whatever but we're going to do
it
again hell yeah okay so wait so now I
should be able to just control this
thing so how do I go home I guess I have
to do
this okay oh no but that
sucks oh
sick oh yeah oh yeah oh yeah oh yeah oh
yeah okay so let me show you guys what's
going
on okay wait so so let's
uh um so we want to do turmo
USB dashr Dev uh what is
it what is it bus O2
O2 oh wait but that that's probably
because it's not
right
what oh this is not
oh it's just so
loose okay that's a little bit
better no no no no
that okay you just can't click oh yeah
that's what it is
dude this this thing is going to drive
me insane so this takes a long time for
some reason and I don't know
why so we just have to
wait the other thing is I don't know if
it captures my ALT tab yeah see my ALT
tab is my
this is so sick dude sour pie or
whatever it's called is
sweet okay sweet so now what I want to
do is
um I already have a compiled I just need
to run this and I have to do oh wait
no
uh I have to do this
wait can I right
click dude what I don't get this isn't
as nice as I want it to
be how do I
paste there we
go wait what
I think it's I think it's uh I think
it's just
this okay and that's correct and then
this okay sweet so now and this is true
because that's exactly what this is
um um but so uh so the thing is that
that I if I uh USB test 3. Pi we have
this and I I even give it the exact path
maybe this is not the right
path cuz it always says couldn't find it
so wait let's
um so wait how do
I oh wait can
we refresh bro refresh come on
oh it's
this okay so
um what's the command to find
the the the
usbo path is it isn't it just like find
before you had a grap or
something no that's stupid as
hell oh
what wait that's not even oh my
gosh oh you know what I have to do I
have to do this then I have to do that
got it and now I have then I have to oh
oh whoa that's weird d i I bet there's
people that are freaking goated at doing
this okay so then
why wait can't I just run python
um oh but I can't have tabs is there a
way to do tabs
in that would be
sick oh seriously
no not that a
[__] wait can I
just do it
from here oh my
god dude wait and how do you switch
tabs I don't think there is but I think
if I just
do
the this
no but they must
have I don't know there must be a
way
um oh yeah I could just do t-u in here I
don't really want to do t-u I think the
t-mo people are like uh like kind of
goofy as hell what's going on code
bra okay
so okay so what are we trying to do here
we're trying to um okay yeah
okay tell
me the script
again wait actually let's just uh let's
just do this so we go like this oh wait
here we go
so U uh let's just do cat cat um USB
test 3.
Pi can we oh yeah so this is a
scroll right so what we want to do is we
want to hold wait
going to hold this
down I'm going to drag it all the way
down and then we want to copy it but now
the problem with this oh wait okay wait
can I do this okay s
sick so that's the
code
um
so uh
us speed. backend okay so let's
do wait that's not what I wanted I
wanted to uh do this and
then okay so wait uh I hate that this
keyboard keeps showing up
um this is taking way longer than I
wanted let's just do
this oh oh oh I'm
silly um yeah so we want to
do so we need to do this
then this then
this great
now wait I you know what I'm going to be
silly and can we
get dude I dude I mean I mean come on
bro
like oh my gosh yeah we are definitely
going to be doing this
uh so okay so
paste um
it's none
right yeah wait but so this was the path
though
um oh
uh lib USB path was oh wait oh
um yeah yeah so now I right the pting is
annoying the pting when I had the the
keyboard directly hooked up was actually
really nice but so this just needs to be
um so it's still going to be none I know
it Lambda oh wait do I have to provide
as a c
yeah still none but why is it
not uh okay I got to
pee that's so annoying dude
okay so like why though
uh what's the python function to check
if
exists
oops wait
okay
then then what what is going on
no dock string dude you gotta be
joking oh we have it somewhere else I
want to avoid doing copies and pastes
and stuff like
that um oh
oh we need to um
copy
copy okay I'm getting good at this it's
just taking a minute um so this is so
wait can we just open up uh wait do we
have vs code
open
um so wait can we just do this silly
thing for a second so uh
okay
oops
uh oh [__] for
okay oh yeah and then we want to go here
and I want to do
this
uh
yeah except can we just change this
before I do the whole thing this is
going to be turmo us P
esp32 okay so now I want to paste this
then I want to
do
this oh my god dude I just created a
repo from my freaking
phone that's
sweet uh
[Music]
okay so uh so
now okay so now I can clone it and I can
just have the code
somewhere
um sure
wait let's just do
this okay wait um
damn it's cold why is it
cold
um oh can we just um
what does this
mean I don't even know what this
is
dude can I just print out okay wait hold
on I just want to know
because I think the main thing is that
I'm not use I think the python code wait
can we go to the python code I don't
think that this is using
yeah cuz I don't use this
anywhere so we're going to do
this okay then I just want to uh go to
this we have
this okay
um oh so now I should just be able to
copy this
we copy this then we
um then we
um oh wait we need to
uh I could have done it in Python too
I'm being
foolish so now I want to pay past
this yeah and then it does that weird
thing and then I want to do
this seven what does that even
mean I don't I don't know what that
means file
descriptor
uh whatever bro so
okay
wait I want a new I want a
new um I was able to get this co uh
I was able to get the C example working
but now I want to get a python example
working and we're not even at the point
where because the thing is I
just should we do
this dude that this is yeah cuz you
can't click cuz it does that
what is the um what does the C example
do with the file descriptor
in the C example the file descriptor is
an integer handle that represents an
open file or a device in the operating
system in Linux and Android everything
is a file even devices like USB which is
why you have pass
okay so when you run turmo d e USB test
with
uh with this file termux gives your
program access to the usbb device by
opening it and providing a file
descriptor the file file descriptor is
passed to your C program as a command
line argument and it is read using the
scan
f s
scanf which converts the first argument
oh right okay fair enough
okay so how do I do that with
python the code you provided is quite
different than wait should I just try
that
um okay so we're going to just do
um I'm so silly but um I'm so silly turo
Das e yeah uh
um but actually is that
because wait how do you run
it
right right you need okay so it's python
you
just no such
device so why did it get no such
device it didn't
say device not found it said No Such
device so we do
IPython and we do import usb. core
import
usb. util then we do usb. c.
find find all equal
true no backend available so what why
didn't it tell me
that so I don't understand that's
so weird
wait I wonder can I just start
python I can probably just start python
right so like
um so we do so we do so we do um
what
oh my God okay you got to click the
thing
no but I don't think that works I think
you have
to yeah I don't think that works for
ooh let's try
that damn it why
so I need to do
this and
this what does it say
I'm so confused why did I get access
denied should I just write a c code that
does
it we could just write it with C who who
actually gives a
[__] yeah I don't care about
python [__]
it how it doesn't even say that that is
going to
be well I'm curious can we get it to
work br
okay
whatever oh
[__]
whatever um I don't I don't care I I
don't really care to do that
that okay I
I the device at is an esp32 that has
micro python
flashed I want to
upload a
script I probably have to use ESP tool
or something nonsensical
is that how that works
let's see if that works
what for
wait for
wait is the source code for this just in
ter this is
old oh [__]
what is that a link even
to that's weird
okay dude no way lib USB is on Source
Forge oh my
God this is the same one this doesn't
have the python example though
how do I you can't oh you can't react to
it because it's archived fair enough
does it work I don't I don't know if it
works what is he working on
now
yeah
um how did I get here
is it because I have something open is
it
I bet turmo is like um
who's maintaining this
[__] for
I have no idea what the hell that even
means is the I don't know where the
packages are oh this is
probably there got to be a lot in here
where is the source code for
this when I do package install there's
nothing even called USB why am I even
looking in
here oh wait
dude I have no
idea I feel like this is probably
stalled when was the last commit on this
thing two weeks ago
yeah it's sort of in maintenance
mode no one's really in charge of this
thing it's unfortunate it's actually
crazy
that I mean they I mean so few people
use it but like if it was good I feel
like way more people would use
it but it's not good so like people at
Google don't work on it
like whatever
M it's not even worth making an issue
that's this I did that
I wonder what that repo
does what does this
[Music]
do bro
should I just try this what does this do
okay USB test
rw1
py. it's a Sim link toore USB
test.sh _ USB test.sh
should I just try to clone it I feel
like it's going to
fail what does that even mean
should we just use C let's just use C we
just got to get this working I'm so sick
of
this
e e
okay I'm giving up on this we're just
going to do
c so we
have this C code
okay we're going to disconnect the ESP
from
my uh
oh
okay we need my dongle
now not this dongle
okay now we
need this
cable
and okay so how does this work
again I did this a few days ago and I
completely
forgot it was
this I'm just going to
is this the right
one I'm pretty sure this is what I
had so
okay so you run this
code wait why don't we have the oh okay
you run this code and now if I type in
n f no so this isn't working
we can't kill
it oh I should have done
that okay so if can I can I just do
this
okay okay so it works so that works so
now if
I what what is it that I do I I need a
document this
um for
serial
uh code ESP serial test
I
one run it then what do we do we close
this
thing we close this thing we disable
extension and then we restart
this but it's still running on my
computer so now if I open the serial
monitor dude is it going to do this can
we just disable freaking rest analyzer
who gives a [__] okay now if I type in
F okay it's off so yeah yeah
so
um
uh and if
you want to just use
the the oh my god
um python
repple as the seral then
done close
that terminal
tab disable micro Pico extension restart
XS uh then three open serial monit
or and
send whatever okay so that's that's just
like how you do it I mean that's just to
remember like
how to get a normal serial monitor
without it being in some weird
extra like wrapper of a repple or some
something silly so
um okay so that's good that's the code
that we want to be on there so
now we want to hook up our phone back to
the ESP
okay and now I actually want
to the first time do
this and I'm guessing the B rate should
be fine so oh my God is that really
going to
oh
whatever serial device not connected
no so it's not getting it maybe the B
rate is
wrong says
connected
um what is all
this oh yeah this is wrong
oh
whoa oh
[__] is that going to
work dude the fact that it keeps showing
the keyboard is like really [__]
up I don't know how turmo gets around
that
it would be cool to make a PR to this
app
um wait but but but that's not what we
want because this needs to be
running if we just type n we're going to
get uh
yeah I guess we could just r right I
guess we could just do
this so like the program basically on
boot it just takes the string of
this and it runs this oh no
yeah that's no good but it didn't airor
it just
uh yeah there you go there's the
unexpected
indent is a r to copy
um I'm in a Android
serial app trying to
send
program
to the P the
ESP but when I paste in the code it
messes with the
indent um
this is the code I want to
run how to paste it then
oh yeah okay fine I'm down to do
that
okay no see what
I wonder oh wait you know what let's
just make a new Android
app dude this was supposed to take like
two hours at the most it is taken like
four and I'm not even close to being
there okay so
okay can we just do
um file new new project uh empty
activity
um seral LED
control yeah let's do the freaking
newest thing I don't give a
[__] great we we should be able to just
follow this
add USB host permission for
sure okay we we need to
wait I literally can't believe that this
is so bad
what oh wait this is the
wrong oh uh I'm stupid dumb
myself and we're supposed to also get
the
um let me do a little
thing uh
okay so we are still in
the okay but honestly it's been pretty
fun like doing this thing kind of thing
is fun to
me is it going to open it obviously it's
not going to open it because why would
it oh there we go let's close this
eventually we'll get to that
okay just tell me what to
do oh we just copy this okay in Android
manifest.xml
where do I put
this I shouldn't have closed the other
one oh
wait oh oh oh
oh activity
so this is
inactivity okay then you also need to
find
it what
oh oh okay cool
dude why is it being such a dick
users feature USB host USB
permission setup USB manager so this is
my main activity okay yeah this is all I
really care
about I want to know when I unplug
I'm pretty
sure what's going on
is when you unplug and then plug in when
you plug in the ESP to power it it boots
up a repple but it it doesn't it doesn't
it's not like the I think the Arduino
like if you just power it on
it runs the last program that was
written on it but I think that might be
different I'm can we just do
this I'm pretty sure that in uh that for
arduinos at least on my Uno that if you
write a program to it uh and then you
depower it and then you give it power it
will start running the last program that
was written to it I don't know if that's
true but it seems like that's not the
case for micro Python and for the ESP is
that true or
not
oh for real
to mimic the behavior of an Arduino you
need to save your script as main up p
so what does it do if there is no
main.py
oh
okay all
right and what if I've uploaded a script
uh to main.py and now I want to go back
and have it do reval print
Loop if you uploaded a script to Main
high and it now you want to return to
the
reple yeah I just want to remove it oh
oh oh oh what is what is
am oh dude that's sweet
that's really
cool okay so let's go back and let's
just get this thing
working I mean why don't I just
use okay so I could just use am Pi do I
have
Amai probably not
um yeah so wait how do you get am pi
based on our new modular B Bas on new
modular based on our new
modular guys based on our new modular
design we will be streamlined and profit
maximized bro I'm so glad I removed that
stupid python 3.12 I don't know how that
got added but it literally destroyed my
life for two weeks cuz I didn't spend
the time to just be like why why am I
not able to pip install anything wait
wait so now why can't I oh I can
sweet so that's that's sweet a ampy is a
tool to control micropython boards over
a serial connection dude that is
so
dude that is so awesome
I kind of like embedded Pro I mean I
don't know if you can even consider this
embedded because you're you're running
python but you know it's like uh it's
more embedded than uh than other
stuff oh how long have I been streaming
man really only an hour and a half
yeah I started at
12:30 why does this feel like it's taken
all
day all right let's just get on with
it get on with
it get on with it yes get over with
it I am enjoying this
Scene
It they're like they're
like the editors thought we should cut
this oh my
God oh my God we got to we got a we got
a sample that dude that is so funny all
right
um
so okay so let's try this okay let's try
this so I'm going to De I'm going to
disconnect the micro python or the uh
ESP for my phone then I'm going to plug
it
into yeah I don't know why I did that
okay then I'm going to plug it into my
computer so now can I
list so okay so uh okay
so okay so tell me how to get
I'm not going to deal with this [__]
and we are going to um
or
whatever bro I told
you okay wait let's just go to this it's
com 10 it's it's com 10
dude this thing does not remember
[__] I feel like it doesn't remember
anything like
okay wait is this open wait but that's
nothing okay so uh so
ampy
dashport uh com 10 ls
do I have to specify
the oh
okay oh okay
yeah um
what will download a file from the Board
and print its contents oh wait okay
let's just do uh bootp dude this thing
is
amazing why is it all commented web
repple okay well who gives a [__]
um let uh
uh uh Co code ESP okay so now we want
ampy DP com
10 uh Dash or
put my script which is serial test and
then um and then and then
main.py and now we can just remove it so
now
oh wait
oh getting windy bro okay so now what I
want to do is I want to disconnect this
thing I want to disconnect it and then I
want to or actually you know what I want
to do I just want to connect to it I
don't need to disconnect it so I start
this and then if I type
on it turns on if I type
off turns off off okay
sweet we didn't need to do
this okay so that's awesome dude this is
so this is really so cool
honestly very nice I like it a lot so um
okay so so the next step is basically
make this program actually control the
steppers and my phone is just going to
send a specific string on detection so
now we just need
to okay so now we do need to do this
right okay it's all coming together guys
it's all coming together we have
actually made some progress dealing with
Android bro I wish my phone was just a
Linux I wish it was just like you just
open Dev TTY you know or whatever it's
called but alas it's not it's not it's
not d i low key should I
put that would be sweet actually a
stream where I um um but the thing is
then you don't get okay wait
um I'm considering um using an old
Android phone I have and instead putting
some sort of Linux uh mobile OS on it
because I mainly I want to be able to uh
run normal programs and I mean do like
serial communication and stuff like that
um what I'm wondering is
one no I should just do it should I just
do
it yeah Chad gbt tell me to freaking
send it tell me to freaking send it bro
tell me to put some Linux on a
phone oh my god dude I don't like that
emoji
you have a
true and a more familiar
terminal
um do you think that if I plugged in cuz
okay cuz earlier in the day I used a USB
dongle and I was able to use my mouse
and keyboard I'm wondering if that would
still work when I put on some sort of
Linux o OS
okay that's that's pretty
sweet I mean yeah like that is the
advantage is that you actually get T
driver support probably
um okay so there's still a bunch of data
on the phone that I have that I'm
basically going to be wiping um how do I
get that off and and saved safely so
that I can basically wipe the phone and
uh
whatever isn't there just like a
oneclick thing to back up
yeah oh dude that's easy as
hell and ADB backup if I want to um that
AB file if I want to oh restore
um okay and presumably this uh this
backup file is going to be
big okay I'm going to go find
um dude I'm so pleased with how this is
going
uh okay
sick
e
e e
okay so it turns out that I don't need
to back it up at all
CU so let's um
this is probably not that high of a I'm
going to go get a real charger
czy side quest baby
it's a zany side quest buddy it's a zany
side quest what are we doing today zany
side quests why cuz I W
to okay we got to wait a
minute I'm not going to do the backup
I'm very happy about not having to do
that
backup saves me a step
oh
yeah here we
go okay I'll wait a couple minutes so
let's um
dude I love micro python micro python is
so much better than Arduino Arduino was
great for you know for the time but it's
like embedded programming should not
be so
inaccessible okay
buntu a buntu
um touch is that what it's
called who makes this is this on
GitHub I mean obviously it's open source
but is it on GitHub on
gitlab it's good it's got 11
Stars holy [__] man wait and the last
commit was two years ago wait no but
that's not to the actual code where's
the actual
code this is not the actual code let's
see
what there's no code
here they probably have their own
but this is still not the actual code I
do not get what you're talking
about where is the source
code what the hell are you guys talking
about
bro okay we're going to go UB ports.com
dude this is not looking good nobody
does this this is silly as hell get a
bunto touch we'll do that but
um where is the source
code dude I
see oh my
God
okay let's go to their gitlab and see if
there's
actual what are these projects can I
just see all their
repos are these all repos
okay fine can I sort by
stars no
what okay well it does seem like there's
code in
here it's like wonky that it's so hidden
and it's like definitely not a good sign
but we are going to try to do
this okay I have a Samsung Galaxy
S9 all right I vetted this thing and I'm
not like pleased with it but we are
going
to is there compatibility
whatever download the
installer oh
wait oh that's not good
I don't want to Breck the
phone I didn't realize
it yeah right because you just need
someone to write like a thousand
drivers that's funny
uh yeah how is Sam uh
no
Samsung dude dude what what have I been
saying we got to take
risks but I do want to I do kind of want
to know the
compatibility e
dude I'm not going to be I'm not going
to be the one to add any
support okay well we'll let this
charge
um the distribution for mobile devices
let's see but what Hardware support do
they have
I like this way more especially because
like I bet that this one like they just
have a link to their source
code contribute
money install
devices page
installation
install postmarket OS
GitHub nice oh wait
nice
okay why are all these nerds on gitlab
dude I don't get
it
e e
okay oh this is way better I I feel like
I might do Post Market
dude this is
great oh camera support is
brutal they have a lot of camera support
for right
is there a compat chart for
uh I don't really like The Branding of
this dude
like all device is there a compat chart
though I looky want to do
wait but with no camera support this is
like not even worth
doing what does p
mean partially
implemented so no no phones have camera
support what's the point
dude what about
can I see
um I want to see that
with toe I'm going to resurrect this
phone
volume dude what the [__] is this
editing hello B here today we're going
to be looking at touch on pone Pro this
is impressive piece of software that
started working on around 2011 theyve
worked on for about 5 6 years and they
handed over TOS Comm once they figured
out that they could compete with iPhone
or Android the sport is relatively
recent it's still only supported by the
community you look at the weage it's not
officially there this is definitely sh
progress the dver coming along this is
now 2 3 years old and a lot of dri
issues oh where is
that wait is this
uh that's not
still has a lot of driver issues but
still very interesting wait wait can I
see if camera support
works that's so funny none of these
things have camera this was already a
month ago let me look at
why isn't this
colored is this an Open Source phone
I've never even thought about that
wait
what but it's not Linux
right oh yeah this is just like we don't
we don't like to be
tracked that's pretty sweet though
that is so cool
though what but it's still a very
interesting Odyssey to look at all right
how about we run through the software
all right this is U to touch you swipe
left or right to get out of the lock
screen your notifications there you can
get to it by swiping down it's all one
small bar on the top
notification
okay for
can I just
wait I I want to I want to watch that
video I want to see someone using this
thing notifications rotation I can lock
keyboard settings that
Japanese Japanese
back have two keyboard lights now I'm
pretty sure it's the same keyboard has
used in plasma
mobile this is the setting screen I can
go back to Notifications swiping down
network not connected any Wi-Fi right
now sound
battery calar system about this device
about we to touch about for foundation
file a bug report system settings lock
shutdown let just tell what lock looks
like okay this lock screen can drag
right or left to go get out of it
instead of dragging up or down this a
pattern in
OS looks like it's not going to show my
wi-fi and let go for the main list
morus going to test the audio so you can
hear
it Mega Man sorry
me download it
nerd probably because the camera camera
does not work camera I think it's a
photo album
camera camera does not work probably
because the drivers no there little dots
against the next to the running
applications reminds me a little bit of
back maybe it would be interesting to
try to add to get that to work I mean
that's like a such a ridiculous side
quest bro he already inst app let's go
back to this later contacts wait wait
what did it say he's already installed
apps the apps this here are not the same
as those installed with the through the
terminal with ap right does some other
[__]
okay this looks good I have no working S
card can you call over Wi-Fi I don't
know here do in here it's not too
anymore we have a barcod reader
calculator which needs to crash we hav
looked at the calendar yet you can
shrink and grow it by dragging and
easily create calendar events again you
create by clicking the
[Music]
bottom so silly bro
so
funny oh there we go
atal oh it has little shortcuts oh
that's sick clicking that okay LS okay
that
works we'll be using a terminal when we
install um W you install through app
wether dude I'm going to send it
the updates and they're installed it's
checking for other updates so this store
only Chrome no problem you got to love
the name of some of these
apps I am looking at fart plan that is
not fat not funny app that's interesting
I'll some Ms out let's try maybe later
and you can donate so there is a way to
have money past hands
[Music]
I don't think I need to watch any more
videos we're going to do it we're going
to [__] do it but I'm
gonna I'm going to wait for this thing
to charge up to 100% just cuz Okay so
let's go back and we're going to cuz it
doesn't look like camera support is
going to be a thing at
all so that that's fine um we'll get to
that when we get to
it wait wait wait what's up man
something about opposing evil Enterprise
and greedy
corporations why do you need
a in oh well I mainly need a camera Cera
but I need
to um I need to send the signal the I
need to run the object detection code
and send where to
move and the other like design decision
that you could make is you could just
have the camera there so just put a tiny
camera there and then lead that wire
down to somewhere that um
that does the compute so I could have
like a pie Cam and then a Raspberry Pi
sitting under it and honestly I think
that's a pretty reasonable design
decision I don't think that that's like
crazy but I don't have a Raspberry Pi I
have like the first Raspberry Pi so it's
slow as hell literally slow as all [__]
so it's not going to do object detection
quickly and um I have a phone so I just
you know
know um just sort of the way the project
evolved
um boky I just want to try this because
I mean I don't know when you tuned
in yeah exactly I don't know remote
router so I don't know what that
means but like
um it needs to be wired that's basically
what today's task is doing is seeing how
much faster
wired yeah right
so the issue is that the the device
should be self-contained so it shouldn't
like there shouldn't be any wires going
to a computer unless the computer is
mounted on to the device so yeah
basically the idea would be take a
Raspberry Pi which is a pretty fast
computer um oh and for right now the one
cable that'll come out of the device
that I'm okay with having is power um
I'm not going to do batteries yet
so um but yeah so that's the other
design and at some point I do want to
try that because that would
be uh pretty cool uh the advantage of
that is that you save a lot on the the
actual part that moves you save a lot of
area because instead of a whole phone
you just need a tiny little
camera um but then the disadvantage of
that well there's not really that much
of a disadvantage
um I guess the only thing is I think
that those
cameras I think that those cameras like
let's look up
pyam I think they have a py cam 3
right I don't know why that's not SEO
okay so they have this pie camam but the
thing is if you look it has like a lot
of pins that come out of it and
um I just bought this thing called a
slip
ring let's let's look at a cross-section
of a slip ring this is the probably the
best thing that we could
do so a slip
ring um
this diagram makes no [__] sense to
me let me get a picture of a real
slippering oh this is a good picture
sort of anyway so you have you have
cables that spin around this thing and
they go through here and they allow you
to spin around without getting
tangled and so um so anyways if if I
wanted full 360 support on this thing so
if I wanted to be able to turn this
thing all the way around multiple times
um
I need to keep the C the wire count
relatively
low
um otherwise yeah I don't know how how
many how like do they have like a 30
wire
slippering I don't know I I just bought
one that is 12 and 12 should be perfect
if I'm using a phone because I have have
four cables to power both of the DC
motors to shoot the balls then I have
four
wires for the um the stepper motor and
then I have four left for sending
communication from my phone to the
microcontroller
um one sec dude I hate I hate these
[__] motorcycles they're so loud like
why
bro
um okay so what are we doing right now
is uh we're going back to this uh
Android app
stuff wait where where was
that oh here it is
wait hold on
did I already did I already look into
this this looks really familiar to
me I feel like I know this Mikey guy
yeah
right uh can't you use a phone battery
yeah so I might be able to use the phone
battery no I definitely
no I
uh I won't be able to use that
battery because my current draw for the
whole device is about an amp
so I don't know what it's saying
about yeah I don't know if that's going
to
work I mean if it could give one one and
a half
amps but the thing is that'll probably
drain the phone pretty quickly
cuz now you're running object detection
and you're powering the whole thing
like for a
um for a
don't you need the voltage
that's pretty long but I feel like
that's in practice that's not going to
be
that
okay what am I doing I'm doing this
Android
thing okay wait so
um
I help me make dude I've been doing this
more help me make an Android app oh wait
it goes away if I click a button help me
make an Android app um that does serial
communication and basically all it needs
to do is have two buttons one button
that sends the all caps string uh
on uh over the serial port to the to the
ESP that it's connected to uh by
USB and the other button just is all
caps off
okay where do we put this thing
again wait I'm on CAU
where do I put this thing
again lowkey having a Linux phone is
going to be sick
though do we still have Source pie
running yeah we
do that probably drains my battery
some okay
okay are we good let's
see what do I
put Le res layout
Android is the most nonsensical thing
ever oh wait can we just do
this cool
um okay what's
next okay cot this main
activity
this okay and then I need the dependency
of this but what the hell is
hoo wait first off what is the most
recent version of this
thing
3.8 it's Java but I it should be fine
with cotlin
right bro what the
[__] add library to your project
does this thing just have an
example o
dude I I'm is this
Java can I do can I only use
Java probably not right I think the
compat is like really good
dude I hate this random nonsense so okay
wait using grad old
cotlin all projects where is this to
your build.gradle okay
where is this thing can't I just add the
this thing
here I don't think this will work so
first off this
this and do I just
do no no no you got to put in
strings and this is going to be
um
oh and what's wrong
what is what is
hoo I don't even know where it's getting
that from
okay can we go back to this great old
thing and
um how do I use
sync build
why is all this so
Random is oh this is hooked up over
Wi-Fi that's
hype oh my
god dude Android develop is one of those
things where you're just
like like this is a torture device dude
this is not
real
um should I follow this random ass
thing
for e
she supposed to
repositories what dude I I don't even
know what
that these quick start instructions are
totally [__] gar
garbage wait wait what happened when
I what is
that what is that wait if I if I comment
this out
that's what it's called Gradle sink so
then we do this and now we Gradle sink
again
dude these names oh my
God one of the funniest things is I went
to San Francisco last night and the
Billboards in San Francisco are some of
the most ridiculous thing
ever
um jit
attack oh here we
go let's try that
dude dude Android developers weep at
cargo ad they weep cargo ad how hard is
that the smooth brained
[__] oh my God
and I hate dealing with UI I hate
dealing with
UI total
nonsense oh yeah I want to listen to
song hopefully I don't get
freaking it's always a risk when I play
songs H risk
and that's not a good
risk all right we're at
50% okay this thing work no it's still
running
okay
cool okay cool wait actually that might
have been just it so we're going to
disconnect this no
wait we're going to disconnect the
ESP going disconnect this
USBC going put this on here here H this
up to
this hopefully it gives me any
diagnostic info at
all presumably there should
be oh wait actually let's um let's test
this so I'm opening up this and I'm just
going to write
on wait let me make sure the B right is
right
yeah
okay
what oh no no no I got to click I got to
click
connect oh sweet and it's fast so hold
on let's get this right
okay I type off now I type on LED turns
on off okay so that's serial
communication to the
ESP that's great now we want to check
our freaking dumbass
app
um
serial and it crashed sick
dude why are these Lo they always like
oh my God
oh dude the fact that it let me do that
is crazy
okay nope
crash
what seral LED
control oh you know what it is it's
probably two places where it was um
where's the app name can I open
this can I do a big ass
search what is it
called
e e
there can't be that many people
developing Android apps it's it's got to
be just like a handful because this
experience is so brutal every time I do
it no one cares jip pack
Maven Babble linga like dude these names
are ridiculous this
okay oh
sick okay so now this just doesn't
work which is fine
okay so wait we want to
change for
not so
bad it's just tedious and it feels like
it's not worth any it's not worth it
it's funny because I for real thought
like la like I could do this last
night e
fail to open USB device
what does this
do oh it does
cool so we just have this function that
we
can how how are you supposed to do it
let me actually read because this is the
part that actually
matters is this cotlin code or Java code
how do you do this again
typo in Word
oh you know
what oh you know what wait let's try
again no
this is the most insane [__]
ever okay
wait
e e
what is 1,000
yeah we should have it Echo back that's
actually a good
idea I don't think this is going to
work I think they have to make it
complicated for no reason
why does it say fail to
open wait can we just can we just
download
this oh wait that's
this bro that's crazy
I wish there was a cotland version
that's
sick that's literally what I've been
using so why did it fail
that doesn't help me at
all dude wait what does it say for the
quick
start let's actually read this thing
okay so we did
this we did
this we're going to add the this so this
is in
activity okay then in res XML right
okay presumably this works now I want to
try it
again CP there okay so that's fail to
open USB device cool
so let's read what code what what it's
actually
doing how do I do this
dude what how do I write a for
Loop what is the type of
it list
oh
yeah dude where is my GitHub or where's
my
[Music]
co-pilot or um
okay so it found a a CP 21xx serial
driver e
I did all this
man why does it fail to
open did I forget some permissions or
something random can we go to the
activity or the uh Android manifest
of this
it's not that it's
this no it's this and it's
um where where is
it Android
manifest I'm just going to add all these
permissions and hope that something
is I doubt that that changed the
thing
wait
e oh wow that's
cool that's [__]
sick okay wait so okay so clearly it's a
permissioning issue I'm gonna go get a
snack I'm fre get
hungry
e
e e
okay
for
for e
it's literally it's literally like
gobbled deg bro it's like total nonsense
m
[Music]
all
okay it works but it's not controlling
the LED but it did get
the it says it's
connected so what I'm going to
do is we do need the echo
and we oh and we need to print we need
to have it loog okay so there's two
things to
do wait is that how you do
it then you go to terminal
wait actually
oh
yeah why is it doing this instead of
running that function whatever I don't
give a
[__] this is taking forever dude what is
going on
what's going on
okay it's not getting it's not printing
the received data
um
oh it never it's not like sending
it
oh
oh I got it I got
it um
oh it works
it just fully works right
now
okay oh wait
wait can I had to read me actually
oh yeah and then
um what
what
okay
okay that was
weird I don't know bro I don't
know
okay so now we have this
little um whatever I'm so happy that it
works though um
okay so
now there's sort of two things that we
could do one thing is
one thing is just modify the current APP
to do serial communication instead of
okay I got to restart the stream in a
sec